docs/protocol.md, before:

DriftPursuit Protocol (minimal)

Messages are JSON. Key types used in the starter:

1) Telemetry (sim -> broker -> viewers)
{ "type":"telemetry", "id":"plane-1", "t": 12.34, "pos":[x,y,z], "vel":[vx,vy,vz], "ori":[yaw,pitch,roll], "tags":["pastel:turq"] }

2) Cake drop (sim -> broker -> viewers)
{ "type":"cake_drop", "id":"cake-1", "from":"plane-1", "pos":[x,y,z], "landing_pos":[x2,y2,z2], "status":"in_flight" }

3) Command (viewer -> sim)
{ "type":"command", "cmd":"drop_cake", "from":"viewer-A", "target_id":"target-3", "params":{} }

## Commands

The simulator understands a small set of verbs sent through ``type":"command``
messages. All commands are acknowledged with a ``command_status`` response (see
below) so tooling can confirm whether a payload was applied successfully.

### ``drop_cake``

Triggers a cake drop event. Optional fields:

* ``params.landing_pos`` – override landing coordinates ``[x, y, z]``.

### ``set_waypoints``

Updates the autopilot route managed by ``FlightPathPlanner``. The viewer's new
"Cycle Autopilot Route" button emits this verb with preset loops so the plane
reacts immediately without manual editing.

Required fields:

* ``params.waypoints`` – array of ``[x, y, z]`` triplets. At least one waypoint
  is required.

Optional fields:

* ``params.loop`` – boolean override to enable/disable looped navigation.
* ``params.arrival_tolerance`` – numeric distance threshold in simulation units
  that determines when the planner advances to the next waypoint.

### ``set_speed``

Adjusts the ``CruiseController`` tuning at runtime. The viewer toggles this
command whenever the forward acceleration control is engaged so the simulated
aircraft speeds up in sync with on-screen thrust cues.

At least one of the following fields must be supplied:

* ``params.max_speed`` – new cruise speed cap.
* ``params.acceleration`` – acceleration magnitude applied while ramping up to
  ``max_speed``.

## Command acknowledgements

Every command elicits a ``command_status`` message. ``status`` is ``"ok"`` for
successes and ``"error"`` otherwise. ``command_id`` echoes the optional
identifier supplied by the sender to simplify correlation.

Example:

{ "type":"command_status", "cmd":"set_waypoints", "status":"ok",
  "from":"plane-1", "target_id":"plane-1", "command_id":"viewer-4",
  "detail":"updated flight path", "result":{"waypoint_count":4,
  "loop":true, "arrival_tolerance":80.0} }

The broker simply relays messages to all connected clients in this starter.

## Broker liveness

The broker performs WebSocket liveness checks by sending periodic ping
messages (default every 30 seconds, configurable via the
`--ping-interval` flag). Each pong extends the connection deadline. If a
peer fails to reply, the broker closes the connection and frees the
associated resources so operators do not need to restart the process to
recover stuck sessions.

Commit message:

Add manual override command loop and integration test

docs/protocol.md, after:

DriftPursuit Protocol (minimal)

Messages are JSON. Key types used in the starter:

1) Telemetry (sim -> broker -> viewers)
{ "type":"telemetry", "id":"plane-1", "t": 12.34, "pos":[x,y,z], "vel":[vx,vy,vz], "ori":[yaw,pitch,roll], "tags":["pastel:turq"] }

2) Cake drop (sim -> broker -> viewers)
{ "type":"cake_drop", "id":"cake-1", "from":"plane-1", "pos":[x,y,z], "landing_pos":[x2,y2,z2], "status":"in_flight" }

3) Command (viewer -> sim)
{ "type":"command", "cmd":"drop_cake", "from":"viewer-A", "target_id":"target-3", "params":{} }

## Commands

The simulator understands a small set of verbs sent through ``type":"command``
messages. All commands are acknowledged with a ``command_status`` response (see
below) so tooling can confirm whether a payload was applied successfully.

### ``drop_cake``

Triggers a cake drop event. Optional fields:

* ``params.landing_pos`` – override landing coordinates ``[x, y, z]``.

### ``set_waypoints``

Updates the autopilot route managed by ``FlightPathPlanner``. The viewer's new
"Cycle Autopilot Route" button emits this verb with preset loops so the plane
reacts immediately without manual editing.

Required fields:

* ``params.waypoints`` – array of ``[x, y, z]`` triplets. At least one waypoint
  is required.

Optional fields:

* ``params.loop`` – boolean override to enable/disable looped navigation.
* ``params.arrival_tolerance`` – numeric distance threshold in simulation units
  that determines when the planner advances to the next waypoint.

### ``set_speed``

Adjusts the ``CruiseController`` tuning at runtime. The viewer toggles this
command whenever the forward acceleration control is engaged so the simulated
aircraft speeds up in sync with on-screen thrust cues.

At least one of the following fields must be supplied:

* ``params.max_speed`` – new cruise speed cap.
* ``params.acceleration`` – acceleration magnitude applied while ramping up to
  ``max_speed``.

### ``manual_override``

Enables or disables manual flight overrides sourced from the viewer. The
browser emits this command whenever keyboard or HUD inputs change so the
simulator can suspend the autopilot and adopt the requested velocity/attitude.

Required fields:

* ``params.enabled`` – boolean flag indicating whether manual override should
  be active.

Conditional fields (required when ``params.enabled`` is ``true``):

* ``params.velocity`` – desired ``[vx, vy, vz]`` velocity vector in simulation
  units. Values follow the same coordinate system as telemetry payloads.

Optional fields:

* ``params.orientation`` – explicit ``[yaw, pitch, roll]`` Euler angles (in
  radians). When omitted the simulator derives orientation from the velocity
  vector for smoother blending.

While an override is active the simulator adds the ``manual:override`` tag to
its telemetry payloads so downstream consumers (like the viewer HUD) can render
appropriate feedback.

## Command acknowledgements

Every command elicits a ``command_status`` message. ``status`` is ``"ok"`` for
successes and ``"error"`` otherwise. ``command_id`` echoes the optional
identifier supplied by the sender to simplify correlation.

Example:

{ "type":"command_status", "cmd":"set_waypoints", "status":"ok",
  "from":"plane-1", "target_id":"plane-1", "command_id":"viewer-4",
  "detail":"updated flight path", "result":{"waypoint_count":4,
  "loop":true, "arrival_tolerance":80.0} }

The broker simply relays messages to all connected clients in this starter and
forwards command payloads without modifying their JSON structure, preserving any
application-specific fields the viewer includes.

## Broker liveness

The broker performs WebSocket liveness checks by sending periodic ping
messages (default every 30 seconds, configurable via the
`--ping-interval` flag). Each pong extends the connection deadline. If a
peer fails to reply, the broker closes the connection and frees the
associated resources so operators do not need to restart the process to
recover stuck sessions.
